Defined details of functions, models (Continue)

- Inbox page
    - Logic
        - Load mailbox
            - Frontend

<details>
<summary>Load mailbox</summary>

<details>
<summary>Goal</summary>

Display a list of emails corresponding to `mailbox` name (`inbox`, `sent`, `archive`) which user clicks on

- Each email is displayed in a box, means a `<div></div>`
- Emails are ordered from the latest one to the oldest one
- Email is read -> display `gray background`, email is unread -> display `white background`
</details>

<details>
<summary>Frontend</summary>

- Problem to solve
    - Send an API request (url: `emails/<mailbox>`, method: `GET`) to backend
    - Display a list of emails corresponding to that mailbox or error message if have

- Input
    - Buttons: `inbox`, `sent`, `archive`
    - Event: `onclick`
    - URL: `emails/<mailbox>`
    - Method: `GET`

- Action flow
    - Wait for the DOM is loaded fully
    - Select all mailbox buttons `inbox`, `sent`, `archive`
    - Iterate through the list of buttons
    - Get the value of the button using `button.value`
    - Add an `onclick` event listener to each button
    - Send a `GET` request to backend with url `emails/<mailbox>`
    - If there is a network error, catch and handle it
        - console.log("Error:", error)
        - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `error-message`
        - Add `error` to the `error-message`
        - Append the `error-message` to `emails-view`
    - If it is ok, backend processes it and sends back a response to fontend
    - Get the response from backend
    - If response is error, display an error message
        - console.log(`HTTP error, status $response.status.`)
        - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `error-message`
        - Add `HTTP error, status $response.status. $response.error` to the `error-message`
        - Append the `error-message` to `emails-view` 
    - If response is not error, parse the JSON response returned by backend into a Javascript object
    - Get response body contains a list of email objects (each represented as a dictionary)
    - Iterate through the list
    - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `email-item`, `data-email-id="${email_id}"`, `data-mailbox="${mailbox}"` to store each email
    - Extract `sender`, `subject`, `timestamp`, `read` status
    - Append `sender`, `subject`, `timestamp` to the `email-item`
    - If `read` is False, set the background color of the email element to `white`
    - If `read` is True, set the background color of the email element to `gray`

- Output
    - UI displays a list of emails following to order by the latest one -> the oldest one. Read email box with `white` background, unread email box with `gray` background. Or error message if have

</details>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Learning notes</summary>

- Before using any function, we should understand clearly 3 things to be able to use it procactively and correctly
    - What `input` does the function require?
    - What does the function do?
    - What `output` does the function return?

- `Promise`
    - An object used to handle asynchronous operations.
    It acts as a placeholder for a value that is not available yet, but will be known in the future — either successfully (resolved) or with an error (rejected).

- `fetch()`
    - Input: (url, options(method: `<string>`, header: `<string>`, body: `<dict>`))
    - Make HTTP requests (GET, POST, etc.) in JavaScript. It allows you to communicate with APIs or servers asynchronously.
    - Output: `promise<response>`

- `then()`
    - Input: a callback function `onFullfilled`. Register it to be called after the promise is resolved. Pass the resolved value of the `promise` into `onFullfilled`
    - Define what to do next after a Promise resolves. It lets you handle the result of an async operation and chain actions.
    - Output: new `promise`

- `response.json()` returns a `promise<JSON object>`
</details>
