Defined details of functions, models (Continue)

- Inbox page
    - Logic
        - Send email
            - Fronted

<details>
<summary>Send email</summary>

<details>
<summary>Goal</summary>

When user submits the email composition form, add Javascript to actually sent the email
</details>

<details>
<summary>Frontend</summary>

- Prolem to solve
    - Make an API request (url: `emails`, method: `POST`, email contents from user input) to backend
    - Display sending result on UI

- Input
    - Button: `Send`
    - Event: `onclick`
    - URL: `emails/`
    - Method: `POST`
    - Email data:
        - recipients: `<input type="text" name="recipients">`
        - subject: `<input type="text" name="subject">`
        - body: `<textarea name="body"></textarea>`

        _*Note_
        - `recipients` is a comma-separated string of email addresses. 
            - It should be converted from `str` to `list` before it is sent to server
            - Maybe user enters wrong format like redundant comma/space. Example: `"'a@gmail.com',   ,'b@gmail.com',,,, 'c@gmail.com','d@gmail.com`. 
        - For other fields, maybe user enters wrong format like redundant sapce

- Action flow
    - Wait for the DOM is loaded fully
    - Select button `Send`
    - Add an `onclick` event listener to the button
    - Get values of user input `sender`, `recipients`, `subject`, `body`
        - `<user input>.trim()`
        - Validate user input
            - If one of user input is empty
                - console.log("Don't leave empty fields.")
                - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `error-message`
                - Add `Don't leave empty fields.` to the `error-message`
                - Append the `error-message` to `emails-view`
        - `recipients.split(",")` -> `<each_recipient>.trim()` -> filter no-empty recipients
    - Convert Javascript user input object to string
    - Send a request `POST` with body `converted string` to `emails/`
    - If there is network error, catch and handle it
        - console.log("Error:", error)
        - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `error-message`
        - Add `error` to the `error-message`
        - Append the `error-message` to `emails-view`
    - If it is ok, backend processes the request and send back an approriate response to frontend
    - If the reponse is not ok, catch and handle it
        - console.log(`HTTP error, status $response.status.`)
        - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `error-message`
        - Add `HTTP error, status $response.status. $response.error` to the `error-message`
        - Append the `error-message` to `emails-view` 
    - If the reponse is ok, convert JSON string to Javascript object
        - console.log("Sending email successfully.")
        - Create a `<div></div>` new element with class name `success-message`
        - Add `Sending email successfully.` to the `success-message`
        - Append the `success-message` to `success-message`

- Output
    - UI displays a message about sending result
</details>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Learning notes</summary>

- `Why do we need "JSON.stringify()?`

    Because JavaScript objects need to be converted into JSON strings before being sent over the network. The string is then encoded into binary (0s and 1s), which the CPU converts into electrical signals. These signals travel through cables to the target server, where they're decoded back into binary, converted into a JSON string, and then parsed into a Python object on the backend. The backend processes this object and sends a response back to the frontend for display.

- `Why do we need programming languages and compilers/interpreters?`

    - A programming language allows humans to communicate with computers more easily, as it uses syntax and structure similar to natural language.
    - However, computers can only understand binary (0s and 1s), so a compiler or interpreter is needed to translate the code into machine-understandable instructions.

- `Why do we use "!value" to validate user input?`

  - Because it covers all falsy values in JavaScript, including: `false`, `0`, `""`, `null`, `undefined`, and `NaN`.
  - It’s more concise and less error-prone than checking each case manually.

- We use `map()` when we want to transform or modify each item in an array. It creates a new array.

- We use `filter()` to select elements that meet a certain condition. It creates a new array.

- `How to name a variable with "camelCase" in Javascript`

    The first word is written in lowercase, and the first letter of each subsequent word is capitalized.
    No spaces, underscores, or hyphens are used.

    ```
        Naming	            Example	        Usecases
        camelCase	        userName	    variable, function
        PascalCase	        UserProfile	    Class, Component, Constructor
        snake_case	        user_name	    Python, file, environment variable
        kebab-case	        user-profile	URL, CSS class, file name
        UPPER_SNAKE_CASE	MAX_VALUE	    Constants
    ```

- For `form`, use `onsubmit` event. For `button`, use `onclick` event.

- Always validate input data before processing logic.

</details>